# Email2Chat specification
Version 0.1.0

Email2Chat (or E2C for short) is a simple specification that allows E2C clients to facilitate conversational style email exchanges between individuals. In v0.1.0 anything beyond plain text conversations between individuals is outside the scope of the specification.

* [Conversational messages](#conversational-messages)
* [Outgoing messages](#outgoing-messages)
* [Incoming messages](#incoming-messages)
* [Forwarded messages](#forwarded-messages)

## Conversational messages
* A 'conversation' is defined as the concatenation of all 'chat messages' in chronological order.
* A message that has an `Email2Chat-Version` header, or is a reply chain to an email with an `Email2Chat-Version` header, is known as a 'chat message'.
* Any email that isn't a 'chat message' is not handled by E2C clients.

## Outgoing messages
E2C clients must add an `Email2Chat-Version: 1.0` header to outgoing messages. It is up to the client to decide the nature and content of the `Subject` header. The body must contain plain UTF-8 text with a corresponding `Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"` header. Additionally valid `Message-Id` and `Date` headers are mandatory. If appropriate, an `In-Reply-To` header should be added using the previous message's `Message-Id`.

For example:

```
From: sender@domain
To: rcpt@domain
Message-Id: <155489288822.9611.10643338350076719184@domain>
Date: Wed, 10 Apr 2019 20:41:28 +1000
Email2Chat-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="utf-8"
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64

SGVsbG8sIFdvcmxkIQo=
```

## Incoming messages
The `Email2Chat-Version` header may be used to detect if an email comes from a compatible E2C client. The `Subject` header must not be used to detect compatible messages. Compatible messages always have valid `Message-Id` and `Date` headers.

In the case of a 'normal' message; those messages lacking an `Email2Chat-Version` header; E2C clients should show the content of the `Subject` header. In addition, the email's body should be interpreted as plain text. Attachments are currently out of the scope of this specification. In addition, for a 'normal' message an `In-Reply-To` header chain is required that eventually uses the `Message-Id` value of an E2C message; this is required for E2C client to treat the 'normal' message as a chat message.

## Forwarded messages
Forwarded messages are currently out of the scope of this specification.
